his dataset includes central line-associated bloodstream infection 
(CLABSI) data reported by California hospitals to the California 
Department of Public Health, Healthcare-Associated Infections (HAI) 
Program, via the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National 
Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). Hospital types include acute care, 
critical access, long-term acute care, free-standing rehabilitation 
hospitals, as well as acute rehabilitation units that report data 
separately. CLABSI data for each hospital include the number of infections 
observed (reported) and predicted (based on national baseline data), the 
number of central line-days, the Standardized Infection Ratio (SIR) and 
associated 95% confidence intervals, and statistical interpretation to 
show whether CLABSI incidence was the same (no different), better (lower), 
or worse (higher) than the national baseline. Another performance measure 
in this dataset allows for tracking hospital progress in meeting national 
HAI reduction goals. Hospitals must have an SIR at or below incremental 
targets each year to be considered on track. California hospitals should 
achieve 50% reductions in CLABSI from 2015 to 2020. Central line insertion 
practices (CLIP) adherence percent for each hospital is calculated from 
data reported by all critical care locations (i.e., critical care areas, 
neonatal critical care, and one special care area, "Oncology - 
Medical/Surgical Critical Care"). CLABSI SIRs are influenced by clinical 
and infection control practices related to central line insertion and 
infection control maintenance practices, patient-based risk factors, and 
surveillance and reporting methods. Health and Safety Code section 
1288.55(a)(2) requires general acute care hospitals to report to the 
California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of CLABSI 
identified in their facilities. For general information about NHSN, 
surveillance definitions, and reporting requirements for CLABSI, please 
visit: https://www.cdc.gov/nhsn/index.html To link the CDPH facility IDs 
with those from other Departments, including OSHPD, please reference the 
"Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at: 
https://data.chhs.ca.gov/dataset/licensed-facility-crosswalk For 
information about healthcare-associated infection prevention progress in 
California hospitals and statewide prevention goals, please visit: 
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/AnnualHAIReports.aspx


