California Health and Safety Code section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general 
acute care hospitals to report all cases of vancomycin-resistant 
enterococci (VRE) bloodstream infections (BSI) to the California 
Department of Public Health (CDPH). Hospitals report VRE data to CDPH via 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare 
Safety Network (NHSN) following NHSN protocols and definitions. CDPH 
downloads California hospital VRE BSI data from NHSN and analyzes the data 
to describe prevention progress in an annual public report of 
healthcare-associated infections. CDPH publishes annual VRE BSI data in 
datasets that include the number of VRE BSI reported by each California 
hospital in the specified reporting year and the hospital-onset VRE BSI 
rate. The VRE BSI rate is calculated by dividing the number of cases by 
the total number of patient days; the rate is then reported per 10,000 
patient days. VRE BSI rates are not risk adjusted because there are no 
such methods available at this time. Aggregate mean rates used for 
comparisons are stratified by hospital type (and for community hospitals, 
by bed size). The unadjusted VRE BSI rates herein are affected by the 
clinical services provided, infection control practices, and surveillance 
methods. Detailed information about the variables included in each dataset 
are described in the accompanying data dictionaries for the year of 
interest. For general information about NHSN, surveillance definitions, 
and reporting requirements for VRE, please visit: 
https://www.cdc.gov/nhsn/index.html To link the CDPH facility IDs with 
those from other Departments, including OSHPD, please reference the 
"Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at: 
https://data.chhs.ca.gov/dataset/licensed-facility-crosswalk For 
information about healthcare-associated infection prevention progress in 
California hospitals and statewide prevention goals, please visit: 
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/AnnualHAIReports.aspx
